This book summarises prepared mini-courses for various computational tools and methods in the field of human archaeogenetic data analysis, with a particular emphasis on population genetics.
The chapters are contributed by different authors, as indicated in the Yaml-frontmatter of each chapter's `.qmd` source file.

# General guidelines
·	Intended audience: We expect typical readers to have prior knowledge similar to a Biology graduate student. In particular, authors can assume basic knowledge in Genetics.
·	Authors should not assume deep knowledge in computational infrastructure, including installation etc. These steps should ideally be explained.

# Formatting guidelines
For a Quarto template, see document Toolbox_Quarto_Template.qmd.

## Metadata/header
mandatory fields:
- title: ideally <120 characters
- author: Full Names, separated by comma, of all contributing authors in their preferred order.
- bibliography: references.bib -> This file is central to all chapters, and any reference edits to chapters should make edits within the central file, e.g. through pull requests etc. We will use this central file for both chapter-wise reference lists, and a global reference list for the end of the book.
- toc: true

## Content
This order is recommended, but exact structure may depend on the chapter at question. Section headings can differ, except for “Test yourself” which we would like to have for every chapter.
- Introduction, including motivation, purpose of the tool/method, non-trivial installation notes, download-links, relevant papers. 
- Theory background, if applicable (see intended audience). 
- Instructions, How-Tos, usage examples, interpretation examples, code examples...
- Test yourself: 3-5 questions on the content of the chapter.
- Further reading
- references (to be automatically generated by quarto, using markdown citation mechanism)

Generally, use Markdown features like links, italics, code layout etc.
Callout-blocks: Please use them, following the Quarto documentation.

## Header structure
–	Use Header 2 (##) for main sectioning
–	Use Header 3 (###) for sub-sectioning.
–	Please do not use deeper sectioning.
–	The table of content and the numbering will be set up automatically.

## Code Blocks
When adding a **code block**, keep in mind, that this will be visible as well as the results, unless you set up otherwise, please see the quarto documentation, and use proper language headers for correct syntax highlighting.

## Plots
We generally welcome inline code execution for generating plots, but beware of dependency issues. If you are unsure, provide the resulting plot as image, see below.

## Images
Please consider copyrights for images! For vector graphics, please use SVG or PDF, for image files use PNG or JPG. In the latter case, use an appropriate resolution for screen display.

# Repository structure
- quarto.yml #central quarto book definition file
- 1_intro/ # every chapter its own sub-folder with qmd file and any supporting files for rendering and/or readers to access.
    - intro.qmd
- 2_quarto/
    - quarto.qmd
    - quarto_plot1.jpg
    - quarto_dat.csv
- 3_fstats/
    - fstats.qmd
    - fstats_pic1.jpg
- ...
- references.bib #central bibliography file
- references.qmd
- README # general readme page for the github repo, independent of book content

If you have any questions, please reach out to us on Mattermost or email (stephan_schiffels@eva.mpg.de, selina_carlhoff@eva.mpg.de, laura_lacher@eva.mpg.de).
